Middleware 1.3.23 (#47)
fiskaltrust/release-notes: middleware/middleware-1.3.23.md

---
slug: /release-notes/middleware/1.3.23
title: Version 1.3.23
---

# fiskaltrust.Middleware 1.3.23 (Germany)
_September 15, 2021_

In this version of the Middleware, we added the possibility to easily identify mandatory and optional signature items when printing receipts. Additionally, the Middleware is now able to automatically update the _Fiskal Cloud Connector_, and several bugs and stability issues have been resolved.

> :::caution

Reviewer: Is this being replaced somewhere?

Author: Yep, this is handled by Docusaurus (https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions)

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

> :::

Reviewer: Anything missing?

Author: I don't think so, this ::: are automatically converted by Docusaurus (see above)

## Feature: Flag optional signature items
Starting with this version, we're adding the _ftSignatureFormatFlag_ `0x0000000000010000` to signatures that are not mandatory to print. Especially with the recently changed _KassenSichV_ regulations in Germany (which allow to omit printing most texts when a QR code is added), this should enable PosCreators to more easily decide which information needs to be printed onto the receipt and which information is optional.

> More information can be found in the [respective docs](https://docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/docs/poscreators/middleware-doc/germany/reference-tables/ftsignatureformat). Please note that this behavior can be deactivated by setting the Queue configuration parameter `FlagOptionalSignatures` to `false`.

Reviewer 2: I would probably highlight the last section in an extra box e.g. "If this causes any problems you can.."

Author: Valid, thanks! Added a "hint" box.

## Feature: Automatically update FCC with SCU update

> Starting from this version, each _SwissbitCloud_ and _DeutscheFiskal_ SCU are connected to a specific minimal Fiskal Cloud Connector (FCC) version. If the currently installed FCC version is lower than this, the Middleware will automatically download and update the newer FCC. This should enable users that have already installed previous versions to profit from the latest improvements in this external dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from this version, each _SwissbitCloud_ and _DeutscheFiskal_ SCU is tied to a specific minimal Fiskal Cloud Connector (FCC) version. If the currently installed FCC version is lower than this, the Middleware will automatically download and update the newer FCC. This should enable users that have already installed previous versions to profit from the latest improvements in this external dependency.
```

Author: PR was already merged, but I fixed it in `master` - thanks!

## Documentation: Process documentation for DSFinV-K exports
We have created documentation templates for the mandatory process documentation (_Verfahrensdokumentation_), in which we describe how the Middleware populates specific fields in the DSFinV-K export, and how exports can be downloaded from the Portal if the users bought a PosArchive package. This template can be added to the PosCreator's or PosDealer's process documentation and might be useful in case questions occur during audits.

It's available in the [German Portal's download section](https://portal.fiskaltrust.de/AccountProfile/Download).

## Affected packages
Packages not listed here were not updated, as we decided to not increase the version of unchanged packages. All packages with versions greater or equal to 1.3.1 are compatible with each other (it is e.g. possible to use _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.Swissbit.1.3.1_ with the new queue packages).

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.EF v1.3.23_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.MySQL v1.3.23_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.SQLite v1.3.23_

> - _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.FiskalyCertified v1.3.23_

Reviewer 2: Do we want to highlight that this is the first release that is not a release candidate?

Author: Good point, I've added a sentence to the intro 🙂

> - _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.FiskalyCertified v1.3.23_

Reviewer: Is fiskaly 1 completely out of the picture at this point?

Author: No updates included in v1 this time, yes 👍
